So, today I'm going to be walking you
through the AI search statistics for
2026. So, we analyzed over 3,000
keywords from Google Keyword Planner and
looked at the overall trend of SEO, AI
search, AI, and even AI agents. And I
want to show you how things are changing
over time. This is really important if
you're trying to stay on the cutting
edge of this industry. There's no
secrets here that SEO is changing, okay?
It's changing dramatically. It's been
changing for the many years now because
ChatGPT launched in 2022. So, we're
pretty deep into this. We are no longer
in the early stages of this process, and
there's still a lot of businesses and a
lot of people that are still really
behind. And so, I'm hoping that from
this video, from this study, this is
going to help you really step on the gas
to make sure that you're taking this
very seriously, okay? So, let's go
through a couple of these statistics.
And just to give you some a little
context,
basically what we did is we looked at
all kinds of different keywords related
to SEO, AI, AI agents, answer engine
optimization, generative engine
optimization, and basically we're
looking at the trends of those topics.
And I want to show you because the
demand is shifting, but there's some key
points I really want to cover on this,
which is number one, SEO itself is not
dying despite any clickbait that I've
published in the past just for fun or
anyone that's posting about that. The
reality is
SEO itself, which is really just a
process of optimizing for search in
general, is never going to go away as
long as people are searching for stuff.
As long as people are looking for
solutions to their problems, there's
always going to be SEO work to be done.
It's just how we're defining it, how
we're measuring it, even how we're
executing it is changing dramatically,
and it changes every single day. Now,
that might scare some people, but if you
like the constant change and you like
the constant forward movement of this
industry, it's a great industry to be a
part of, but you got to be ready to
change. There is no place in this
industry to to keep your feet stuck. You
have to move. You have to adapt. You
have to constant constantly be changing
your strategies. And the people that
have been in this industry for the
longest are the ones that are extremely
adaptable. And not just the ones that
have been in it, but the ones that have
actually continued to be successful
through multiple cycles in this
industry. And obviously AI, the
introduction of AI has changed
everything. And so there there's just no
more situations where you need to be
living in the past. You need to make
sure you're
moving. Don't try to go against the
market. And there's a lot of proof of
this, okay? So the first thing here is
let's go ahead and scroll down. And
there's some statistics that I want you
to be aware of, all right? So
the big one here is that SEO, the actual
demand for search engine optimization,
is officially on the downtrend. There's
quantifiable data proving this. And we
peaked in 2025, but you can see the
trend that is occurring here. AI
continues to be this train and this
rocket ship that of interest and market
demand. And people are just generally
interested in AI, and that is not going
to change. This is only going to
accelerate. And eventually this will
become even more dramatic where it's
going to be totally lopsided. And why is
that? There's a lot of reasons why, but
I think one of the biggest reasons is a
lot of businesses, a lot of people in
general,
think that they can do SEO with AI.
Let's just face it, right? And there's
some truth to that. There's a lot of
things you can do in SEO that AI can
help you with. Absolutely. Using agents,
using AI, I prove it all the time on my
channel. And I have We have an a fully
agentic software that we use. So
the answer is it is absolutely true, and
I'm not surprised by this. If you're an
agency, and you're selling SEO, if you
look at this chart, and you just move on
with your day, then you are playing a
very dangerous game, okay? And I love my
agency buddies, okay? I work with
agencies every single day. I help them
every single day. It's been my focus for
basically, I don't lost count of the
amount of years it's been my focus
helping agencies. I got to tell you,
this is a trend that you need to pay
attention to. It's not going to reverse.
Okay? Because there are other things
chipping away at SEO. AI in general is
chipping away at SEO. AI agents are
chipping away at SEO. People believe
that they can use Claude, or Codex, or
ChatGPT, or Perplexity, or whatever it
is, to do a lot of their SEO. Okay?
People believe that. And you can try to
go against that as much as you want. You
can try to resist the market, but you
will lose. The market always wins. And
so, whatever the market wants, you need
to go in that direction. And if your
clients, you're on discovery calls, and
your prospects are saying,
they're talking about ChatGPT, and all
these other AI platforms, and you can
continue to say, "No, no, it's not a big
deal. It's just SEO."
Just
it doesn't matter. Because if your
clients are talking about AEO, GEO,
agents, AI,
you also need to talk about it. You need
to pivot your services. You need to
reposition yourself to jump on wherever
the market is moving. If you continue to
say, "No, I just sell SEO." You're going
to lose to the agencies that are selling
the new vehicle, okay? So, I just cannot
stress this enough. These numbers, by
volume,
SEO is significantly larger right now.
Significantly. We're talking millions
and millions of searches. But, look at
the trend. Don't look at where we are
today. Look at where we're going. And
right now, you cannot abandon SEO right
now. It's not at a place where you can
abandon it because there's still so much
demand. That would be foolish. But, you
can no longer ignore these other
terminology, different different ways of
describing our profession. You have to
You just have to embrace it. Okay,
that's all I'm saying. All right? Over
time, I would suspect that agents will
slowly start to take over and there will
be basically AI and AI agents will be so
enormous that it will dwarf any type of
marketing channel that there is, right?
And so, GO and AO, in my opinion, pretty
synonymous. But, when you combine these
together and you see the growth of these
together, it's quite significant.
They're growing. People are searching
these things.
Just pay attention, okay? The other
thing here, too, is that year-over-year,
the overall demand in SEO and search
engine optimization is down 30%, okay?
It was at its peak a year ago, but now
it's significantly dropped. And I don't
suspect this to go in a reverse
direction because organic CTR continues
to get slaughtered by AI. So, the
solution is not, "Hey, let's try to
keep doing the old stuff to try to
capture more clicks when the clicks are
basically gone, okay? The clicks are
going to evaporate. That is just a
guarantee. And there's so much data to
prove this. Anyone that says that
organic clicks are going to continue to
rise in any way, they're not paying
attention to what's going on here.
There's overwhelming data that clicks
are evaporating in organic search
specifically.
We are playing a different game. Now,
once again, does this mean you should
just stop doing SEO? Absolutely not. You
should keep doing SEO, but you have to
allocate at least 20% of your time,
effort, energy s- building out new
products and services within this AEO,
GEO, AI search sector. Because if you
don't, you will get left behind. I've
been telling people in my training, in
my academy
for 2 years. 2 years I've been telling
them, "Please, if you want If you want
to get ahead of this, just go on your
agency website and say that you offer
AEO or GEO."
Just say it. That's it. You don't need
to formulate some crazy service and just
say that you offer it. And then when the
people start talking about it, then you
formulate the strategy and you see
there's demand and then you can build
out that product or service. But to
pretend like it doesn't exist, that's
crazy to me. I can't even believe any
agency would live that way. That's
dangerous. And for all the agencies that
that I help, they're already ahead of
this. They're already selling it. Like I
One of my best One of my best agency
friends here in St. Louis, we met
probably about a year ago and he was
talking about how the demand for SEO
services has been rough. And he runs a
very successful agency. And he's like,
"Yeah, it's been tough out here." And so
we got together, we brainstormed. I was
like, "Listen, just start selling AEO
services, AI search optimization." And
then he turns around 2 weeks later and
he's closing $5,000 deal per month,
$10,000 deals per month for AI search
optimization. So he literally turned his
agency around just by going with the
market. Go with the market. I am telling
you right now, okay? I just need to be
very clear about that. Okay. And so AEO
and GEO are growing. Okay? And you can
see it plateaued a little. It's same
thing around 2025. There was a big
plateau there and it's just been a
little flat. There hasn't been a whole
lot of growth in these terms as of right
now. But if you go back and look at the
history of SEO, SEO's gone through these
volatile waves as well. So I'm not
really surprised by this. I think on a
long enough time horizon, we'll probably
see that over time this will continue to
have an upward trajectory.
Determining which is going to be the
acronym, I really don't care, to be
honest. GOAIO Search Everywhere
Optimization, AISEO, it doesn't make a
difference to me. At the end of the day,
it's just getting brand visibility
across AI platforms. It's the process of
getting brand visibility in traditional
search. That's the job now, okay? You
should be trying to do search
optimization across every platform.
That's how, at least in my mind, and how
to execute it, that's the way I think
about it, okay? Now, going back to this,
AI agents. This is a big one, and this
might be where, like, why would AI
agents matter about SEO demand? They
matter because agents can do so much,
and it is scary how much it can do. And
it also means that
agents are a threat to agencies.
Because agents can do a lot of work that
that humans can do. And like inside of
our software company, like we have
agents doing so many things right now.
So many things that are just doing the
work of it's faster, it's cheaper, and
uh on honestly, it's often times better.
And I hate to say that, but the quality
of work that it does, when you have
proper guardrails, when you give it the
right skills, and you iterate on those
skills,
it's scary good. Scary good. And this is
already happening like in our software,
it's happening, but even in our own
business, we use agents to build our
software, right? We use agents, we use
AI, and we've used agents to build
software like we would have never been
able to do it 2 years ago. And we're
building at such a fast rate now, it's
insane. We're shipping so much, and it's
all because of agents. And the reality
is, just what we've been able to achieve
in such a short amount of time is
unreal. It is only possible because of
agents, okay? And I'm telling you, when
you experience the power of this,
you start to realize, okay, this is
dangerous. Now, the agencies that are
going to survive this environment, where
you have these agents that can are only
going to become more capable. Let's keep
that in mind.
They're already capable today. Just
imagine in 6 months, a year, 2 years, 3
years.
It's going to start to get really scary
how effective these things are going to
become. And it's going to be very hard
for humans to compete in many very
specific ways, okay? Still need humans,
but the agencies that are going to do
really well going forward going to have
a lot of directors and strategists and
people formulating strategy but then
pushing out these having one kind of
high-level super intelligent agent plus
many sub agents to go and execute work
in very specific siloed ways in the
campaigns. I believe that's what's going
to happen. In fact, that's already
what's happening in our campaigns. Even
our website you're looking at right now
fully agentic website. Everything we
publish on this site is fully agentic.
But it is led by a human. Right? The
human is leading the efforts on the
website. But a lot of the heavy lifting,
the page construction, the design, the
copy everything is agentic. Is AI, okay?
So, even this what you're looking at
right now this entire page, I'm telling
you I did not write a single word of
copy on this page. I did not do the
design. I did not build the page.
The only thing that I did was I did the
initial research. So, we did the initial
research with a human. We took that
data. We input it into AI. It
synthesized that data. It built out the
case study and the report. And then it
formulated an agentic prompt that I
could paste into our website builder,
which is just Replit. And then we built
out this page. And then we also used
Claude design to design this page,
design the graphics keep it aligned with
our font and our brand style and all
that stuff. But most of this, like this
is all heavily AI. Like most of the
heavy work is all AI. The strategy, the
thought, the judgment is obviously the
human part, right? And I don't see that
getting replaced. You need the human to
lead this, but the thing is, one human
this these days it can be the equivalent
of 10, 20, honestly, possibly even a
hundred humans at this point if you
understand how to use these tools, okay?
And that's what they are, they're tools.
You still need a human to develop
strategy. Now, is there a possibility
that these AI agents could develop
strategy? Absolutely, they can develop
strategy.
But it takes there's just there's this
kind of intangible thing that I've just
found it's really hard to replace humans
that are that really know what they're
doing. And I the key is like
a human that has expertise and
experience. I don't see AI replacing
that anytime soon, but I think if you
can take a human in any field who has
expertise and experience and you layer
on the right AI foundations, it's scary
what one person can do, okay? One
person. And I'm going to be This is not
me trying to toot my own horn here, but
like
Rankability right now competes against
huge teams, okay? We'll just talk about
it on the marketing front, okay?
Rankability, just the website and the
brand. Our marketing team, I'm not even
kidding, is me.
I am the marketing. I am the marketing
team.
>> [laughter]
>> Me and a bunch of agents are the
marketing team. One person and we're up
against
I won't even name names, but there's
some software companies that are worth a
billion dollars, okay? Some AI search
software companies, they've gotten a
hundred million dollars of funding, 25
million, whatever it is, okay?
Zero dollars in funding, completely
bootstrapped, one person doing marketing
for this software and we're competing
we're actually in the conversation with
these other huge companies that are
getting massive amounts of funding,
okay? Huge teams hiring hundreds of
people.
How's that possible? How are we even
possibly competing with them?
Because
I've happened to have a decent amount of
experience in this industry. I've just
happened to be doing SEO for since 2011.
And so when you give someone like myself
or anyone who has a lot of real
experience, not just like paper I worked
at an agency. No, like leading
campaigns, getting results,
building up a lot of scar tissue from
just being in this industry, man, what
someone can do with this technology,
it's pretty amazing, okay? So just want
to keep that in mind that there is a
future or even now where it makes a lot
of sense where you don't have huge
teams. Is this going to be the way that
I handle things at Rank Ability Forever?
Absolutely not, right? I'm already I'm
building out I'm bringing in people to
offload a lot of things on the marketing
front, but as far as the overall
strategy, the overall direction that
we're going, that's my job, right? So
but this is where agents come in. The
agents help you offload a lot of that
and
I just don't see how any human led team
that does not that is not amplified by
AI and agents could possibly win. I just
don't know. I'd say good luck because I
don't know how you could possibly have
enough speed to win. And the reality of
speed is
very important, okay? We can see AI,
there's only one direction that it's
going. If you combine agents with that,
you can also see if you if we just
consolidate this together, we'd be able
to see the growth going in one way. So I
AI agents
it's a big thing and the most important
part is to attach AI to what your agency
does, okay? So, instead of just saying
we do SEO, just simply say we do AI SEO.
That's it. You don't even have to do
anything. Just put a put one little
acronym in front of it, right? We do AI
SEO. Uh yeah, we also specialize in
answer engine optimization. Just start
selling it. And then once you sell a
deal, then you say, "Okay, now we got to
figure out how to deliver." The good
news is not that hard once you
understand the systems behind all of
this. And I'm very confident in our
systems now at this point as far as
executing in these driving brand
visibility and AI answers and citations
and it is heavily SEO, okay? On the back
end, it's heavily SEO, all right? That's
a big part of it. It's SEO with a twist,
which in my opinion is search everywhere
optimization, but I don't think that's
going to sell very well. So, just go
with the market, okay? So, a couple key
things to keep in mind here that we can
finish off here. Number one, SEO is not
dying. Let's keep that in mind. All of
the foundational skills that you've been
developing over, let's say you've been
working in this field for 10, 5, even 2
years, whatever it is, all of that all
that work you've done to become an
expert, to figure out how crawlers
actually work with websites, how to get
pages indexed, how to rank pages, that
stuff all matters and will continue to
matter, okay? All of those best
practices that you've been focused on
and working on, keep doing all of that.
This is more about though how we
position our products and services. And
you can position them as SEO, you
certainly can, but you better have the
AI attached to it in some way, okay? You
absolutely need to. So, don't just keep
it pure SEO, include AI in there so at
least your clients can see that you're
on the cutting edge, quote unquote,
okay? Another way that this is change is
how we're measuring
this whole job, all right? And
it used to be very simple with SEO, we
would just track traditional rankings,
look at overall search performance, get
impressions, clicks, CTR from Google
Search Console, and then Google
Analytics 4, you track organic search
traffic, and then you would track
conversions across the organic search
traffic. Now, it's very different
because clicks are becoming extremely
scarce. So, how do we actually measure
performance? And so, what we're focused
on though right now is the brand visible
in the AI answers for the queries that
actually matter. Okay? So, when people
search commercial they search queries
that have commercial intent in your
category focus, does your brand appear?
When people, let's take an e-commerce
example. When someone searches best
creatine for vegans, and you sell vegan
creatine, does ChatGPT recommend your
vegan creatine? That's it. It's that
simple. Yes or no. And if yes, then if
the answer's yes, where do you appear in
those recommendations? If you're number
seven, it's not going to be as good as
you being the number one recommended
brand for the in that specific category.
So, that that's really what you have to
think about. And you want to think about
that across every single AI surface. So,
I would begin with ChatGPT cuz it has
the most demand right now, but Claude is
growing massively fast. So, you want to
focus on Claude. You want to focus on
Google's core AI products. That's going
to be AI overview, AI mode, which is
probably going to consolidate into one
unit. Google Gemini, obviously. And then
if you're doing local, Google's local
pack is still the king of local. But,
aside from that's really what you want
to be thinking about is category focus.
Are we winning on the categories that
really matter to the business? You
really need to stop thinking about this
on a a full business basis, pick one
specific category, and go absolutely
crazy trying to build topic strength and
topic authority, and topic coverage in
that one category. Once you feel like
you have covered it to the fullest
extent, you're getting brand visibility
in that category, then you move on to an
adjacent category that will support that
one, but is a new one, right? So, if you
did, let's say, best creatine for
vegans, the next category you might
attack might be like best creatine for
for sensitive stomachs, okay? Something
like that. Or then best creatine for
athletes, right? You just keep breaking
off into little separate segments in
different types of intent. And the end
result of doing that, all those little
kind of micro clusters you build around
let's just call best creatine,
what it does is going to elevate that
whole category. So, you're going to
drive more brand visibility for best
creatine,
and that's going to elevate the whole
entire cluster together. But you got to
get real granular first and just win one
battle at a time, okay? One battle at a
time, and then move on to the next one,
okay? So, that's the big part of this.
As far as tracking, as of right now, the
best type of tracking is track your your
brand performance in core category basis
in the AI answers. Make sure that your
website is one of the core sources of
retrieval, so you're getting cited
across AI platforms. The next one you
want to think about is when you extract
all the citations, is your brand getting
mentioned on those core sources of
retrieval? That's it. So, if you're do
If the answer's no, you that's the work
that you have to do, okay? And then keep
doing traditional search. Goes without
saying. But that's the measurement piece
of this is like you want to focus more
on the leading metrics that are And then
the lagging metrics are hard to quantify
at this point, okay? I'll give you a
small example. You go into ChatGPT and
I'm searching for best creatine for
vegans, I find some supplement that
looks good. I'm like, okay, cool. Then I
go to Google and I start searching about
that particular supplement. But I start
on ChatGPT, right? And then I go to
Google and I'm like, hey, okay, I didn't
get the information I need. All right,
I'm going to go to I'm going to go to
YouTube and see if there's anyone who's
used this. Watch seven videos there. And
I'm like, okay, I think that's pretty
good. I I I'm You know what? Actually,
I'm going to go check out TikTok and I'm
going to see I'm going to see if there's
any videos there that maybe could
confirm that this is a good supplement
to use, right? So, you think about that
journey is like it just went through
three to four different platforms
and the original origin was ChatGPT.
ChatGPT will not get attribution though
for that conversion. So, wherever that
ends up finishing off, it will probably
be Google and Google will get
attribution for that conversion even
though Google didn't even lead that
process of pushing that searcher or
person deeper into the funnel. It was
all ChatGPT that did all that heavy
lifting, but then Google will get the
attribution, right? So, this is the
world that we're living in. Anyone that
claims they've got attribution figured
out and they've got it squared away is
lying. There's just no possible way that
you can be confident about attribution
at this point. It is so difficult. It is
a black box. There's a lot of
attribution coming from direct referral,
direct traffic inside of Google
Analytics. What the heck is that? No one
knows, right? Where's that coming from?
Is it coming from Who knows? Cuz there's
not even UTM parameters that are
attached to a lot of this traffic. So,
in a sense, it is a guessing game in
many ways and you have to have multiple
levels of attempted attribution
including even just asking users where
they found you. And even that's
inaccurate, right? Because we've looked
at thousands of user recorded
attribution for for our different
products. People say, "Oh yeah, we found
you on YouTube." And then we get on the
phone call, "Hey, how'd you find us?"
And they're like, "I actually found you
on Google." I'm like, "You You said
YouTube, right?" And then it'll be vice
versa, like, "Oh, I found you on Google
in the description." Then we get on the
phone call, like, "We've watched I've
been watching your YouTube channel for
10 years." And like, "Okay, that Yeah,
so you're like trying to trying to
figure out, okay, you said this." And
then you're trying to figure out the
attribution. It's just so hard. So, I'm
just not confident to say that I have
that figured out at this point because
it's just so difficult with attribution
And I would be suspicious of anyone that
claimed they have attribution figured
out. And it's also important to talk
about this with business owners that
when they're investing money in
AI search services or SEO, they want to
know are they actually getting a return
on their investment, okay? But that's
very hard, right? It's like running a
Super Bowl ad and trying to figure out
if you can get a return on your
investment. Can you measure it? It's
kind of hard, right? It like this is
when there's branding initiatives, you
know, brand-based advertising. That's
what's going on now in AI, okay? I wish
I had an answer to the attribution
problem, but what you can do is you can
measure the leading metrics, which is
overall visibility. If you're overall
visible across
almost every platform, every search
surface, it's greatly going to increase
your odds that your business is going to
grow in general. We've been seeing this
across the board like
absolutely traffic is down. Organic
search is falling, but conversions
actually haven't been negatively as much
as you would suspect with the divergence
of traffic and conversions. Like you'll
see a lot of downward traffic going on a
lot of campaigns, but conversions are
just kind of stable, right? And that's
just because it's been replaced with
other methods to bring in those
conversions. Might be through branded
search or whatever it may be, okay? So
hope that helps. I'll see you in the
next video. Thanks.