What are the top tips to win SEO in
2026? I asked these questions to many of
the SEOs who attended the Google Search
Central event last week in Zurich and
these are the answers. Let's go through
them.
>> My SEO tip for 2026 is to get yourself
and your website and your business ready
for the Agentic web. If you've been
paying attention in 2025, you will see
that we've seen the Aentic commerce
protocol, the A2A protocol, the Agentics
payment protocol, all of these things
lining up during 2025. And in 2026, I
think we're going to see all of those
things really come to bear for the wider
web.
>> My SEO tip is to master your feeds and
optimize all the data that we're passing
directly into companies like Google and
Open AI. So, our opportunity to give
concrete facts and clear instruction to
those systems and hopefully protect
ourselves from generative results that
could distort or wrongly reference us.
So, that's what I say. Take control of
your feeds. Find out which teams run
them, which teams build them, and get
them to start including your
optimization efforts into 2026. invest
heavily in proprietary data so that LLMs
can use that data and then soak it up
and then you know you can deny them
access in the future um and then make
them pay for it. Uh because the way the
the web is going is that it's going to
be more costly to build content and LLMs
are going to run out of content to
consume. So the more proprietary data
you have, the higher the chance that
you'll be able to broker deals with
these these companies.
>> So I have three SEO tips for 2026.
Number one, if you're in e-commerce,
your packaging is now your landing page
because with machine vision, you better
present that correctly. Customers are
taking photos and asking questions. Tip
number two, get familiar with
clickstream data because if you're
tracking prompts and trying to figure
out your AI visibility, you have to
confront your ideal prompts with reality
and what people do. And that's with
clickstream. Okay? And number three is
get comfortable with the technical side
of branding. handle that stuff that the
branding department want won't like
hallucination containment. What do you
do when there's brand drift where
features are made up? Who handles that?
Who handles the bots and checking, hey,
is this bug coming to train or answer a
user question? That's on you. Now,
>> my SEO tip is don't forget about
internal linking. Optimize your internal
linking and not just back links. My tip
for next year is of course focus on
indexation because in the future you
might have some issues with it because
of all that spammy content out there. Hi
everyone. My SEO tip for next year is to
focus on the tactics on what always
worked. We have just heard it at Google
uh search central like just do SEO keep
doing SEO and you will be ranking in AI
as well. And I really really hope to
have a Google search console for AI
overview. So please Google just do it.
>> My SEO tip for 2026 is to actually bite
the bullet and face your Google
Analytics 4 or Adobe Analytics data head
on. Organic is facing a lot of issues
with lots of clicks and lots of sessions
and the journey is becoming more
multimodal. So you really want to be
drilling down into advertising reports
and looking at how much value and new to
brand touch points organic is driving to
your website and then which channels are
then taking the preference through last
click. It's G4 is not the greatest. We
all dislike it, but it's time to
actually start doing that and telling
better data stories to stakeholders and
to sea level. Hi guys, I'm here to tell
you my SEO tip for 2026 is that SEO is
going to be more exciting than it's ever
been. We've got more services and more
data to find out what users really want.
So get smart, use it. Long live SEO.
>> My tip for 2026,
I think SEOs will start putting more
emphasis on understanding their
audience. So what I'll what I believe is
going to happen is that there's going to
be more uh attention paid to like media
consumption. So if you think of who your
audience are and you know who they are,
where they live and what they do in a
day. So for example, who you wake up,
you have breakfast, what websites are
you reading, what social media platforms
are you going on, and then maybe you you
get in your car or you go on the tube to
the office, then what podcasts you
listening to. So if you imagine that
process throughout the day, I think more
attention is going to be paid to who the
audience is and where they're going to
consume media and then they're going to
factor that into how to reach those
people through different different forms
of content. and then optimize for that
accordingly. And then that's going to
factor into understanding this this
messy middle which ultimately helps us
with uh optimizing for things like AI
overviews and large language models. So
my top SEO tip for 2026 is and guess
what it is? Schema. It's always been
schema. But next year I think as LLMs
get a bit more sophisticated with
understanding what's under the hood in
code, they'll want to save a bit on
token optimization. They want to save
those tokens and understand what an
entity is and what the meaning of
something is in as much less time as
possible. And I think by doing that,
that's where schema comes in. Tells you
what the entity is, tells you what the
context is, and then it can read the
format and the structure of the content
on it. To wrap up, I want to share my
own SEO tip for 2026 and it is to every
time that you do anything, create
content, optimize content, enable a new
section, take actions to improve the
indexibility, crawlability, rendering of
your content, anything is to ask if this
is align with your brand. Is this on
brand? Because realistically, we need to
be much more mindful on what we invest
our efforts on. It's not about stopping
to invest on informational top of the
funeral content. No, it's making sure
that that informational top of the
funeral content is actually meaningful
to our brand. It's very well connected
with our product offering or service
offering. That's the key here. And it
should be a question that should be
asked not only when you create new
content or optimize content for that
matter, but whenever you do anything to
deliver an experience to the user that
should be aligned to the way that you
want to be recognized. And this also can
be very well extrapolated and not only
on what you do on page but with the
alignment of your marketing efforts
elsewhere as well. Digital PR uh
community management we can see how a
lot of the answers from LLM's citations
are coming from these external sources.
So again, not only brand building, but
brand optimization, entity optimization,
alignment from a topical standpoint to
create and optimize content in a way
that is very well connected with your
topical expertise should be a must and
is my tip for next year. If you want to
keep up with the latest in SEO, don't
miss out and remember to subscribe to
the SEO for newsletter. Last but not
least, I want to thank Similar Web, who
is an SEO for you to read and crawling
Monday's sponsor, and who are also
sponsoring this video. Thank you very
much. Until the next one, and don't
forget to subscribe to avoid missing